William was fifteen when this happened. We lived in the hills in the West.
One day when he was on his way back from the store, having just collected an order of Orla potatoes. He came across an old man lying in the road. He had bumped his head. When Will got closer, the old man tried to sit up. But my Will asked if he could help. he said yes, but I need help standing up. My Will was a large boy for his age so had no trouble helping him to stand. Will asked him where he lived. He pointed to a hill. Will saw the track ahead and knew the climb would be difficult for the old man. Will assisted him to get him home. With great effort he got him home. His home was one of those cabins found in all parts of these hills.
The old man was called Sam. When Will asked Sam for his last name he answered, "Just Sam".
When Will entered the cabin there was this wonderful smell of leather. The cabin floor was covered with all sizes of pieces of leather. Will told me about a strange looking stool with larger pieces of leather. Will surprised look on his face caused Sam to speak.
"This explains why people call me Sam the Cobbler--now his friend tell me your full name."
Before William could answer his eyes fixed on shelves in a small room. There were shoes of all types and sizes.
"Your full name, boy!" Sam said in a loud voice.
"Oh, excuse me Sam. It is William Hatfield but people just call me Will." Then he said,
"All right, Will, why are you so taken with his shoes, your eyes have not gone off them?" asked Sam.
"Sam, I never had a pair of shoes in his whole life." I replied.
"I know, said Sam, that’s the way it is with you folk. That is why his shelves are so full: no customers. let me return your good deed by making a pair of shoes."
Will asked, "Why make a pair? Wouldn’t any of those fit?"
Sam said "No, they have to be special. You see everyone’s feet are unique. Often one foot is a little bit bigger than the other. Not to mention the problem of flat feet, narrow ankles and high arches--in fact some people have more than five toes on each foot."
"NOT MY Will---just look" he exclaimed.
Sam said "Let’s get to measuring your feet now. they will take a couple of days. They will be a pair of brown Oxfords with good strong laces and soles."
Will was so excited, because this was his VERY FIRST PAIR OF SHOES!
He told Will to come back dressed in his very best for that Thursday. Will did this, you can only imagine what happened after He put THE SHOES ON!
Will looked at himself in the full length mirror. In all his best and smartest clothes I don’t think I ever saw him looking better. He seemed to be taller and so proud.
Will couldn’t hold his excitment telling Sam how amazing the shoes were.
Sam the asked "What will you do Mr William Hatfield?" 
Will told me that without hesitation, he said to Sam words that even surprised him. "Sam, I’m leaving these hills".
Good for you Sam said, "These shoes will serve you well."
That was the last time I saw him. 

For years on Will’s shelf in the library, under a glass dome, are a pair of well worn brown Oxfords.

