There has been a series of attacks across the Afghan capital Kabul, with insurgents targeting Western embassies and the parliament building.

The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the co-ordinated strikes - adding that a group of armed suicide bombers had launched attacks on Nato's headquarters, the parliament and a number of diplomatic residences.
"These attacks are the beginning of the spring offensive and we had planned them for months," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid was quoted as saying.
Several explosions rocked the US, British and German embassies and a Nato military base.
One report said a rocket-propelled grenade had hit the residence of the British diplomat in Kabul.
The Foreign Office confirmed in a statement: "There is an ongoing incident in the diplomatic area of Kabul. We are in close contact with embassy staff."
A spokesman for the US embassy said it was in lockdown, but staff there were safe.
A US defence official, who did not want to be named, said the attackers were using mostly small arms and rocket-propelled grenades, and "perhaps even suicide bombers".
Afghan security forces, who are responsible for the safety of the capital, have been scrambling to reinforce areas around the diplomatic enclave of the city centre.

A spokesman for Nato's International Security Assistance Force (Isaf) said via Twitter there were attacks in possibly seven locations around Kabul, but there were no reports of casualties yet.
More than 10 explosions in all shook the capital, and heavy gunfire continued in various places after the initial blast.
There were also reports that several gunmen had tried to enter the parliament building, but were driven back by security forces and have taken cover in a nearby building.
Reports said MPs were helping the Afghan forces fire back at the insurgents.
"I'm the representative of my people and I have to defend them," MP Naeem Hameedzai was quoted as saying.
Afghan media said the Kabul Star Hotel, which is located near the presidential palace, was also on fire following an attack there.
Amid the confusion, US army convoys could be seen coming into the city, accompanied by Afghan police.
The Taliban said the group was also behind assaults in two provinces - as reports claimed a suicide bomber had attack Jalalabad airport in the country's east.
